PXB-3008 document - Add a parameter to disable memory estimation during backup (8.0) (#105)
percona/pxb-docs: docs/advanced/smart_memory_estimation.md

    To `prepare` a backup, Percona Xtrabackup uses InnoDB Buffer Pool memory. Percona Xtrabackup reserves memory to load 256 pages into the buffer pool. The remaining memory is used for hashing/categorizing the redo log entries.

    The available memory is controlled by the `--use-memory` option. If the available memory on the buffer pool is insufficient, the work is performed in multiple batches. After the batch is processed, the memory is freed to release space for the next batch. This process greatly impacts performance as an InnoDB page holds data from multiple rows. If a change on a page happens in different batches, that page is fetched and evicted numerous times.

## How does Smart memory estimation work

> Starting with [Percona XtraBackup 8.0.30-23](../release-notes/8.0/8.0.30-23.0.md), while copying redo log entries during the backup phase, Percona XtraBackup computes the memory required for `prepare` phase. Percona XtraBackup also considers the number of InnoDB pages to be fetched from the disk. 

Reviewer: This paragraph seems redundant. You say the same info in line 5

Author: Updated

> Then Percona XtraBackup checks the server's available free memory and uses that memory up to the limit specified in the [`--use-free-memory-pct`](..//xtrabackup_bin/xbk_option_reference.md#use-free-memory-pct) option to run `--prepare`. The default value of the `--use-free-memory-pct` option is 0. This means that the option is disabled by default. If, for example, you set the option to 50, 50% of the free memory is used to `prepare` a backup. The maximum allowed value is 100.

Reviewer: Due to backward compatibility, the default value for the --use-free-memory-pct option is 0 (zero), which defines the option as disabled. For example, `--use-free-memory-pct = 50` then 50% ...

Reviewer: Since "The maximum allowed value is 100" is defined in the variable reference no need to mention it here.

Author: fixed

> Starting with Percona XtraBackup 8.0.32-26, you can enable or disable the memory estimation during the backup phase with the [`--estimate-memory`](..//xtrabackup_bin/xbk_option_reference.md#estimate-memory) option. The default value is `OFF`. Enable the memory estimation with  `--estimate-memory=ON`:

Reviewer: We may need a Version change section at the beginning.

Author: added

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ xtrabackup --backup --estimate-memory=ON --target-dir=/data/backups/
```

> In the `prepare` phase, enable the [`--use-free-memory-pct`](..//xtrabackup_bin/xbk_option_reference.md#use-free-memory-pct) option by specifying the percentage of free memory to be used to `prepare` a backup. The `--use-free-memory-pct` value must be bigger than 0.

Reviewer: must be larger than

Author: fixed

For example:

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ xtrabackup --prepare --use-free-memory-pct=50 --target-dir=/data/backups/
```

## Example of Smart memory estimation usage

Here is an example of how Smart memory estimation can improve the time spent on `prepare`.

> Let's say we run three backups using sysbench with 16, 32, and 64 tables containing 1M rows each. The `--use-free-memory-pct` option is set to 50. This means that 50% of the free memory is used to `prepare` a backup. The backup is run on an ec2 c4.8xlarge instance (36 vCPU's / 60G memory / General Purpose SSD (gp2)). 

Reviewer: Don't need "Let's say"
We back up 16, 32, and 64 tables, each set contains 1M rows, using sysbench. The `--use-free-memory-pct=50` uses 50% of the free memory in the `prepare` phase. 
36 vCPUs / 60GB memory

Author: fixed

During each `--backup`, the following sysbench is run:

```text
sysbench --db-driver=mysql --db-ps-mode=disable --mysql-user=sysbench --mysql-password=sysbench --table_size=1000000 --tables=${NUM_OF_TABLES} --threads=24 --time=0 --report-interval=1 /usr/share/sysbench/oltp_write_only.lua run
```

> The following table shows the backup details:

Reviewer: (all measurements are in Gigabytes)
Remove the (GB) after each

Author: fixed

||Used memory (GB)|Size of XtraBackup log (GB)|Size of backup (GB)|
|---|---|---|---|
| 16 tables | 3.375 | 0.7 | 4.7 |
| 32 tables | 8.625 | 2.6 | 11 |
| 64 tables | 18.5 | 5.6 | 22 |

* **Used memory (GB)** - the amount of memory required by Percona XtraBackup with `--use-free-memory-pct=50`

* **Size of XtraBackup log (GB)** - the size of Percona XtraBackup log file (redo log entries copied during the backup)

* **Size of backup (GB)** - the size of the resulting backup folder

> `Prepare` executed without Smart memory estimation uses the default of 128M for the buffer pool.

Reviewer: MB

Author: fixed

## How does `Smart memory estimation` work

Starting with [Percona XtraBackup 8.0.30-23](../release-notes/8.0/8.0.30-23.0.md), while copying redo log entries during the backup phase, Percona XtraBackup computes the memory required for `prepare` phase. Percona XtraBackup also takes into consideration the number of InnoDB pages to be fetched from the disk. 
 
Then Percona XtraBackup checks the server's available free memory and uses that memory up to the limit specified in the [`--use-free-memory-pct`](..//xtrabackup_bin/xbk_option_reference.md#use-free-memory-pct) option to run `--prepare`. The default value of `--use-free-memory-pct` option is 0. This means that the option is disabled by default. If, for example, you set the option to 50, 50% of the free memory is used to `prepare` a backup. The maximum allowed value is 100.

> Starting with Percona XtraBackup 8.0.32-26, you can enable or disable the memory estimation during the backup phase with the [`--estimate-memory`](..//xtrabackup_bin/xbk_option_reference.md#estimate-memory) option. The default value is `OFF`. Enable the memory estimation with  `--estimate-memory=ON`. After enabling the memory estimation, enable the [`--use-free-memory-pct`](..//xtrabackup_bin/xbk_option_reference.md#use-free-memory-pct) option by specifying the percentage of free memory to be used to `prepare` a backup. The `--use-free-memory-pct` value must be bigger than 0.

Reviewer: A new paragraph or emphasize that the use-free-memory-pct is in the Prepare phase.
In the Prepare phase, enable

Author: updated

Starting with [Percona XtraBackup 8.0.30-23](../release-notes/8.0/8.0.30-23.0.md), while copying redo log entries during the backup phase, Percona XtraBackup computes the memory required for `prepare` phase. Percona XtraBackup also takes into consideration the number of InnoDB pages to be fetched from the disk. Then Percona XtraBackup checks the server's available free memory and uses that memory up to the limit specified in the `--use-free-memory-pct` option to run `--prepare`. The default value of `--use-free-memory-pct` option is 0. This means that the option is disabled by default. If, for example, you set the option to 50, 50% of the free memory is used to `prepare` a backup. The maximum allowed value is 100.

> Starting with Percona XtraBackup 8.0.31-24, use the `--estimate-memory` option to enable or disable the memory estimation. The default value is `OFF`. To enable the `Smart memory estimation` feature, set the  `--estimate-memory` option to `ON`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with Percona XtraBackup 8.0.32-26, use the `--estimate-memory` option to enable or disable the memory estimation. The default value is `OFF`. To enable the `Smart memory estimation` feature, set the  `--estimate-memory` option to `ON`.
```

Author: Updated

> Starting with Percona XtraBackup 8.0.31-24, use the `--estimate-memory` option to enable or disable the memory estimation. The default value is `OFF`. To enable the `Smart memory estimation` feature, set the  `--estimate-memory` option to `ON`.

Reviewer: Starting with Percona XtraBackup 8.0.31-24, the `Smart memory estimation` feature can be enabled or disabled with the `--estimate-memory` option. The default value is `OFF`.  Enable the feature with `--estimate-memory=ON`.

Author: Updated
